This is the bug fix report and new features listing for the 2.2.3 - 2.2.4 minor release. There were two bugs discovered with the new jmesa.js file, which was the main reason for this release. In addition I decided to release some minor features that are positioning the component for the worksheet functionality.

*See the 2.2 [2_2NewAndNoteworthy documentation] that contains the core features for the 2.2 release.*

*See the 2.2.1 [2_2_1NewAndNoteworthy documentation] that contains the features for the 2.2.1 release.*

*See the 2.2.2 [2_2_2NewAndNoteworthy documentation] that contains the features for the 2.2.2 release.*

== Features ==

 * Added a getBytes() method on the View to make testing exports easier.
 * Passing in the action invoked string now as the second parameter on the !JavaScript. Could be very useful in custom circumstances. Like any !JavaScript method this additional parameter is optional.

For example this is a custom handling of the sorting that overrides the default behavior and to only allow one column to be sorted at a time.
{{{
function onInvokeAction(id, action) {
    setExportToLimit(id, '');

    if (action == 'sort') {
        var limit = LimitManager.getLimit(id);
        var sortSet = limit.getSortSet();
        if (sortSet) {
            var sort = limit.sortSet[limit.sortSet.length - 1];
            removeAllSortsFromLimit(id)
            limit.sortSet[0] = sort;
        }
    }
	createHiddenInputFieldsForLimitAndSubmit(id);
}
}}}

=== Tag Attributes ===
The following is a list of attributes that are included in the tag library. These attributes exist on the core API and are now implemented on the tags.

==== !HtmlTableTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| tableRenderer || *Y* ||

==== !HtmlRowTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| rowRenderer || *Y* ||
|| style || *Y* ||
|| styleClass || *Y* ||
|| evenClass || *Y* ||
|| oddClass || *Y* ||
|| highlightStyle || *Y* ||
|| highlightClass || *Y* ||

==== !HtmlColumnTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| cellRenderer || *Y* ||
|| filterRenderer || *Y* ||
|| headerRenderer || *Y* ||
|| headerStyle || *Y* ||
|| headerClass || *Y* ||
|| filterStyle || *Y* ||
|| filterClass || *Y* ||

== Bugs Fixed ==
 * The jmesa.js file had a bug that appeared when sorting multiple columns. The error was a result of bailing out of a .each loop incorrectly.
 * Fixed bug that appeared when clicking twice on an action in the toolbar (next page for example) and before the table reloads. The problem is when there is a double submission to the server the post parameters are duplicated.