The JMesa 2.3 release should be out by the end of November. This page outlines the features that will be included as part of the next release. If you are interested in trying out the new features, or just like staying on the bleeding edge of development you can download an [http://builds.jmesa.org/ incremental build]. You will be able to use this page to judge how far along the development is as I will be sure to keep this page current.

== Features ==

 * [Tags Tag library] will include all the attributes from the API.
 * New PDF View implementation (contributed by Paul Horn) *(complete)*
 * The filter look and feel will be reworked to be more subtle. It will also make use of the [http://jquery.com/ JQuery] !JavaScript library.
 * The filter will include a droplist feature. Again, this feature will be implemented using [http://jquery.com/ JQuery] for the !JavaScript.
 * The State feature will look for the stateAttr in the request scope if it is not found in the parameters. This allows for more flexibility in various frameworks. *(complete)*
 * The exports will default to 'table-data._exportType_'. *(complete)*
 * Improved look and feel for filter. Now very subtle effect. *(complete)*
 * Drop Shadow option for table, which gives a nice aesthetic effect. *(complete)*
 * The most exciting feature will be inclusion of the [Worksheet] functionality!

The following Locales are added:
 * Dutch (nl_NL) (contributed by Tom Kalmijn and Marco de Booy)
 * Spanish (es_MX) (contributed by Jesús Morones)

=== Tag Attributes To Implement ===
The following is a list of attributes that still need to be included in the tag library. These attributes exist on the core API and just need to be implemented with the tags.

==== !TableFacadeTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| messages || N ||
|| preferences || N ||
|| toolbar || N ||

==== !HtmlTableTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| tableRenderer || N ||

==== !HtmlRowTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| rowRenderer || N ||
|| style || N ||
|| styleClass || N ||
|| evenClass || N ||
|| oddClass || N ||
|| highlightStyle || N ||
|| highlightClass || N ||

==== !HtmlColumnTag ====
|| *Attribute* || *Complete (Y/N)* ||
|| cellRenderer || N ||
|| filterRenderer || N ||
|| headerRenderer || N ||
|| style || *Y* ||
|| styleClass || *Y* ||
|| sortOrder || N ||
|| headerStyle || N ||
|| headerClass || N ||
|| filterStyle || N ||
|| filterClass || N ||


== Bugs Fixed *(completed)* ==
 * If had multiple tables on the same page then tables with no items would display the last row from the previous table. The reason was because the bean as defined by the var attribute was not being cleaned up in the page scope.
 * The State feature persists the current Limit. However, when doing exports this causes the problem of always wanting to export when restoring the State. The solution is if doing an export then will not persist the Limit for the export call. References  [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=35&can=1 issue 35].
 * Toolbar rendering issue (missing title attribute for excel buton). The resource bundle had the incorrect syntax. It should be html.toolbar.tooltip.excel. References  [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=37&can=1 issue 37].
 * Filter on Nullable Property. Fixed by looking at property attribute, and not column data. References [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=36&can=1 issue 36].