JMesa allows you to export your tables in PDF, Excel, and CSV.

What may not seem obvious at first is that you always define your exports in the Controller (or Action if using Struts), even if you are using the tag library. The other way I could have implemented exports is with a servlet filter. However, I learned from a previous project that using a servlet filter is very difficult (near impossible) to get working across all servlet containers and with all frameworks. As it turns out exporting through the Controller has turned out to be the right choice as I have had no reports of exports not working.

In addition to being a stable choice, defining the exports separately in the Controller allows for each export to be customized as desired. For instance, you can redefine the columns to add or remove specific columns based on a specific export (PDF, Excel, or CSV).

Because the worksheet is just an extension to the core functionality this tutorial is a complement to the [BasicTutorial basic tutorial].

=== Controller ===

Exports are always declared in the Controller.

==== Example ====

If you remember from the basic example, in its simplest form you can have a working table in just four lines of code. The first line creates a new !TableFacadeImpl instance. The second line defines the columns that correspond with the item properties. The third line adds the items. Then finally the table is rendered!

{{{
TableFacade tableFacade = new TableFacadeImpl(id, request);
tableFacade.setColumnProperties("name.firstName", "name.lastName", "term", "career", "born");
tableFacade.setItems(items);
String html = tableFacade.render();
}}}

With exports we need to first define what types of exports we want. So lets step back a little, add the exports, but forget about rendering the table for a second.

{{{
TableFacade tableFacade = new TableFacadeImpl(id, request);
tableFacade.setColumnProperties("name.firstName", "name.lastName", "term", "career", "born");
tableFacade.setItems(items);
tableFacade.setExportTypes(response, ExportType.CSV, ExportType.EXCEL, ExportType.PDF);
}}}

Our table is now defined with the exports. However, at runtime we now need a way to know if we are exporting, or rendering an HTML table. This information is found on the Limit with the boolean method isExported(). So now we do a simple check to see if an export is being done. If it is we create the export table. If not then we create the html table and render that.

{{{
Limit limit = tableFacade.getLimit();
if (limit.isExported()) {
    export(tableFacade); // create the export table
    return null;
} 

String html = html(tableFacade); // create the html table
request.setAttribute("presidents", html);
}}}

_In Spring and Struts, returning null tells the controller that the response stream is being modified directly._

By now we have our exports working but we should still add a caption and fix up the first and last name columns to display better. Doing this is exactly the same as you would for an HTML table. One thing that is not apparent though, is that the caption will also be used as the export file name. If you do not define the caption then the file name will default to "data-table" along with the proper file extension (ie: data-table.pdf).

{{{
Table table = tableFacade.getTable();
table.setCaption("Presidents");

Row row = table.getRow();

Column firstName = row.getColumn("name.firstName");
firstName.setTitle("First Name");

Column lastName = row.getColumn("name.lastName");
lastName.setTitle("Last Name");
}}}


The last thing we need to do for an export is write it out to the servlet response stream. This is done when the call to render the table is done.

{{{
tableFacade.render();
}}}