===== Where is the autoIncludeParameters feature of eXtremeTable? =====
The autoIncludeParameters is not available in JMesa. For those not aware of the feature, the autoIncludeParameters enabled the eXtremeTable to include all parameters not directly related to building a table. Technically the eXtremeTable created hidden input fields for each parameter. This was handy in that while a user filtered, sorted, and paged through the table the table would include and pass along all the parameters needed for a given page. However, this was also a function not directly related to the rendering of the table, and was a constant source of confusion. 

Now, JMesa is a form component like an input or select field. It is not automatically wrapped in a form element, and it also does not automatically include other parameters. This does not mean that you lose the ability to include parameters though. It just means that you need to include them yourself, as hidden input fields, and as needed. It is just classic web development in that when things change on a form and you do a page refresh that you pass all the necessary parameters along so the page displays correctly. And, just to be clear, with JMesa by page refresh I mean that when you filter, sort and page it does do a form submit that in effect refreshes the pages content. Note: of course if you are using AJAX this is not the case, but that should be obvious for AJAX developers.

If you really miss the autoIncludeParameters feature you might think about coming up with a tag that could be used in conjunction with JMesa that would basically work like
autoIncludeParameters. This would give you the feature, but be consistent with letting JMesa just render tables. If you look at the !ParametersBuilder class in the test package it would show you how the parameters are built. What you would need to do is not include the JMesa parameters and have the tag build hidden form fields for the parameters you do want passed as you filter, sort and page. This might even be a good thing to include in the distribution as an optional tag and be a start to the tag package.

===== How do I format a date or number in my column? =====
If you have a date or numeric column then chances are that you will want to format it. See the [Editors] page for more details on how to do that. Be sure to add a custom [FilterMatcher filter strategy] if your column is filterable. 

===== My exports are not readable. What is wrong? =====
It could be that the export is having a hard time reading out to the response. We should
first check to see if the document is being created correctly. Try the following code versus the tableFacade.render():

{{{
View view = tableFacade.getView();
HSSFWorkbook workbook = (HSSFWorkbook)view.render();
FileUtils.writeByteArrayToFile(new File("/home/jeff/workspace/output.xls"), workbook.getBytes());
}}}

_This example is working with the Excel export so be sure to cast to the correct object if debugging some other export._

What this is doing is writing the Excel file out to a local file instead of the response stream. The FileUtils comes from the jakarta commons io package so if you do not use that just output the file however you are used to. If the file looks good then the problem is something in your servlet container. Chances are it is a filter problem at this point. Take a look at your web.xml file and remove servlet filters until you find the filter causing problems.

===== How do I limit the column to only sort asc or desc? =====
You would need to set the sort order on the html column using the [Components sortOrder] method.



