This is the first release of the JMesa 2.5 series. The major new features are in the area of the worksheet and how you work with the API.

_The reason for the major version change is one of the worksheet interfaces changed, and the deprecated methods throughout the API were removed. I do not expect the changes to effect anyone but I wanted to be safe by having the proper version numbers._

The new worksheet features include the ability to add and remove worksheet rows, as well as a very flexible worksheet validation framework. In addition to the new validation the worksheet column will visually change as you type. This means when you tab out of a column the appearance will show as changed immediately, and if there are validation errors it will show that as well.

Also, I wanted to point out that all the work on the worksheet was done by Siddhant Agrawal! The work done was first rate and is cleanly incorporated into JMesa.

A nice side effect of the worksheet changes is that it became apparent that we needed a better abstraction over the !TableFacade. What we came up with was using a [TableFacadeTemplate template] to create the tables when using the API. In general this is going to be the recommended approach to using the API as it makes building tables even easier than before. The reason is because you no longer have to care about the order that things are run. Now you just extend the feature you want to build (or customize) and concentrate on what you want to do, not on how the API works.

One minor refactoring (that should help a lot) is that the exports are reworked to extend the !AbstractExportView. This class implements the relevant [SupportInterfaces support interfaces]. This means that you should now always extend the !AbstractExportView when creating your own export view.

=== Links ===
 * TableFacadeTemplate
 * WorksheetAddRemoveRows