This release fixes a few small bugs and offers some nice improvements. I also want to thank everyone that made this release happen! This truly was a community release because all the patches were submitted by members of the JMesa community.

 * Fixed export filename Locale encoding problem. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=169 Issue 169] patch submitted by qxodream.
 * Fixed PDF export problem where it could not resolve remote DTD file xhtml1-transitional.dtd. The DTD should now be read from the core-renderer.jar file on the classpath. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=181 Issue 181] patch submitted by marioalberto.ramirez.
 * Documentation for building the JMesa project behind a proxy. The wiki page can be found [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/wiki/ProjectBuildBehindProxy here]. Documentation created by marioalberto.ramirez.
 * Fixed JMesa compiler warnings. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=184 Issue 184] was a nice code cleanup patch that was submitted by bgould.
 * Fixed !LimitActionFactoryImpl's attempt to decode parameters that have already been decoded. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=183 Issue 183] patch submitted by bgould.
 * Fixed export PDF encoding(i18n) problems. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=171 Issue 171] patch submitted by qxodream.
 * Improvement to the !DroplistFilterEditor. Currently it doesn't show all options with auto filtering and sorting disabled. Typically you would override this class to include the options you need, but now there are setters to make working with the class easier. [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=185 Issue 185] patch submitted by bgould.