This page outlines the new features that are in the 2.3.2 release.

 * First and foremost we have a new Grails plugin for JMesa! I would like to thank Jeff Jie for supplying the full implementation of this plugin. He also originally authored the Excel view and was the first to start the JSP tag implementation.
 * The toolbar can now (optionally) display page numbers to click through...very much like the Google search bar. This has been a fairly heavily requested feature so I am glad to offer it now. This feature was originally started on the groups list by Srini. I was able to help out some and then refactored the feature into the core API. You can see the feature in more detail in the [ToolbarRecipes toolbar recipes] page.
 * A French Locale was supplied by Regis Dehoux.
 * The jmesa.js file now has the word jQuery in place of the $ so that it can sit alongside other !JavaScript frameworks better. This will not have any effect any custom code.
 * The distribution ships with a minified version of jmesa.js called jmesa-min.js. I used the Yahoo! UI Library: [http://developer.yahoo.com/yui/compressor/ YUI Compressor].
 * Fixed a bug in the HtmlColumnTag in which it was not possible to decorate a !CellEditor with a !WorkSheetEditor.
 * Deprecated the !TableFacade method performFilterAndSort() in favor of the (hopefully) more intuitive name autoFilterAndSort(). The functionality is the same though. The feature is designed so that you can turn off the automatic filter and sorting that JMesa does in favor of your own strategy.