Here is a list of features for the upcoming 2.3.3 release.

 * Table column grouping support via the !GroupCellEditor. You can read the [GroupColumnsTutorial tutorial] to see how this is used.
 * The !CoreContext class has new getAttribute() and setAttribute() methods for data that is table scope in nature. This is very useful for cell editors (such as the new !GroupedCellEditor) that need to store data between multiple columns.
 * Oscar Perez added the Spanish (es_ES) and Catalan (ca) Locales.
 * Anna-Stina Moisala added Finish (fi) Locale.
 * There is a new !StringWildCardFilterMatcher. also added by Oscar Perez. This can be plugged in in favor of the default !StringFilterMatcher. See the [FilterMatcher] if you are unsure on how that works.
 * Native Messages (Locale) support for Spring and Struts2. Again added by Oscar Perez :). _See below for more information_
 * The Spring integration also gives you access to the Spring !ApplicationContext so you can get at the Spring beans. All you need to do is cast the !WebContext down to the !SpringWebContext in your custom code (editors, etc...) and use the getApplicationContext() method. 
 
== Messages ==

This outlines how to integrate with Spring and Struts to pull the [Messages]. If using the tag library you will need to use the latest jmesa.tld.

=== Spring ===

 * API

{{{
TableFacade tableFacade = TableFacadeFactory.createSpringTableFacade();
}}}

 * JSP Tag

{{{
<jmesa:springTableFacade >
}}}


=== Struts2 ===

*Disclaimer* I was not able to test out the Struts2 integration. It was a very simple integration and works just like Spring. If you are using this I would appreciate it if you could email me (extremecomponents@gmail.com) and let me know if it is working for you.

 * API

{{{
TableFacade tableFacade = TableFacadeFactory.createStruts2TableFacade();
}}}

 * JSP Tag

{{{
<jmesa:struts2TableFacade >
}}}