The next release of JMesa is going to be fairly big with regards to improvements and features. You can track the work on the [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/list issues] tab because most all the work is about clearing the issues board. The release should be out by the end of the year (2008).

One big thing you might have noticed is that with each release more and more code is being contributed to JMesa. I really enjoy getting code contributions from developers. I think its interesting when either bugs are discovered or new features are implemented because of working with JMesa tables in a way I had not thought of. 

You will also notice that we are moving to a 2.4 release of the project. I do not expect any breaking changes, so the jump from the 2.3 branch of the code is to reflect all the new features going in.

As things get done I will list them here:

 * German Locale (de). Contributed by Stefan Barucha 
 * Better data encoding in the worksheet and filter ([http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=155 issue 155]). Contributed by Frode Reinertsen.
 * Expression evaluation from Java code ([http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=145 issue 145]). Contributed by Benjamin Gould.

==== Example ====
All three of these code snippets do the same thing...putting the first and last name together using !JavaScript notation. Even though this example is in !JavaScript all the popular scripting languages are supported through the Apache [http://jakarta.apache.org/bsf/ Bean Scripting Framework]. In addition there is support for doing EL expressions as well.

{{{
CellEditor lastNameCellEditor 
                = new ExpressionCellEditorFactoryImpl().createCellEditor(new Expression(Language.JAVASCRIPT, "item", "item.name.lastName + ', ' + item.name.firstName"));
lastName.getCellRenderer().setCellEditor(lastNameCellEditor);
}}}

or

{{{
CellEditor lastNameCellEditor = new BsfExpressionCellEditor(new Expression(Language.JAVASCRIPT, "item", "item.name.lastName + ', ' + item.name.firstName"));
lastName.getCellRenderer().setCellEditor(lastNameCellEditor);
}}}

or 

{{{
CellEditor lastNameCellEditor = new BsfExpressionCellEditor(Language.JAVASCRIPT, "item", "item.name.lastName + ', ' + item.name.firstName");
lastName.getCellRenderer().setCellEditor(lastNameCellEditor);
}}}

 * JMesa !JavaScript is re-written as a jQuery plugin ([http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=128 issue 128]). Contributed by Benjamin Gould.
 * Searching for the valid page is non-recursive. This is more of a technical change and there was a custom implementation that found this edge case [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=151 (issue 151)].
 * Doing additional check when working with the !TableFacade [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=127 (issue 127)].
 * PdfPView null pointer fix [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=142 (issue 142)].
 * Doing a check to make sure that the maxRowIncrements contains the maxRows [http://code.google.com/p/jmesa/issues/detail?id=95 (issue 95)].

