*2/27/2007 : * The road map for JMesa is still being defined. However, the general plan is to start with the release candidates as soon as the documentation is more complete. I would also like to get some more unit tests and examples done. I fully expect to have the documentation, unit tests and enough examples done by the end of March. It is undefined as to how many release candidates we will need, but the idea would be to encourage more people to try out the library before going to a final release.

*4/1/2007 : * The release candidates have started. If all goes well the production release will be out by mid-April.

*4/13/2007 : * The 2.0 release is out!

*8/13/2007 : * An Excel View, using Apache POI, is implemented and will be available in the next release. That was contributed by jeff jie! Another contribution by jeff jie was the start of a [Tags tag library]. What I would like to do is clean up a few things with the current implementation and then release that code as soon as possible. The tag library will have the basic functionality required by most developers. Future releases will make use of more advanced API features. And, lastly there is a new [TableFacade] interface that makes working with the API much easier.

*9/07/2007 : * The 2.2 version is released.

*12/24/2007 : * As a little x-mas present I just released the last of the enhancements for the 2.2 [2_2NewAndNoteworthy New And Noteworthy branch]. Many of the enhancements came as a result of feedback from the community so I wanted to thank everyone for the input and suggestions!

*1/3/2008 : * Released version 2.2.8 that fixes a [http://groups.google.com/group/jmesa/browse_thread/thread/dc4dca72c13c88d9 bug] when passing the Limit to the JSP tag. I also took the opportunity to improve the javadocs with regards to the deprecated methods. There are no other changes or updates.

*1/23/2008 : * Released version 2.2.9 that offers a few [2_2_9NewAndNoteworthy minor improvements] that I wanted to release right away. This is just a (minor) feature improvement release. There were no bug fixes so just upgrade at your leisure!

*_1/27/2008_ : * The [2_3Roadmap worksheet] functionality is in alpha state (2.3 branch).

*_2/9/2008_ : * The [2_3Roadmap worksheet] functionality enters the beta development (2.3 branch). All the phase one worksheet functionality is implemented. It just needs to undergo more testing. If you need this kind of functionality be sure to submit your feedback to extremecomponents@gmail.com so I can get a better sense of how everything is working for other developers.

*_2/24/2008_ : * The [2_3Roadmap worksheet] functionality enters the release candidate stage (2.3 branch). If you need this kind of functionality be sure to submit your feedback to extremecomponents@gmail.com so I can get a better sense of how everything is working for other developers. I also managed to pull together a real example along with a [WorksheetTutorial tutorial]. Lastly, there are some new convenience methods in the !WorksheetUtils class and the !WorksheetCallbackHandler interface to make processing the worksheet very easy.

*_3/04/2008_ : * The 2.3 version is released.
